=== PAGE 1 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 1
Introduction
These Highlights summarize the key issues and changes in the 2025 AHA Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) 
and Emergency Cardiovascular Care (ECC).1 The 2025 Guidelines are a comprehensive revision of the AHA’s guidelines for 
adult, pediatric, and neonatal life support; resuscitation education science; systems of care; and resuscitation ethics topics. 
They have been developed for resuscitation professionals and AHA instructors to focus on the resuscitation science and 
guidelines recommendations that are most significant or controversial or those that will result in changes in resuscitation 
training and practice. The rationale to support each of these recommendations is provided.
Because this publication is a summary, it does not reference the supporting published studies and does not list Classes 
of Recommendation or Levels of Evidence. For more detailed information and references, please read the 2025 Guidelines, 
including the Executive Summary, published in Circulation in October 2025, and the detailed summary of resuscitation 
science developed by the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) in the 2025 ILCOR Consensus on 
Science With Treatment Recommendations,2 published simultaneously in Circulation and Resuscitation in October 2025. The 
methods used by ILCOR to perform evidence evaluation and by the AHA to translate these evidence evaluations, as well as to 
evaluate topics not considered by ILCOR, into resuscitation guidelines have been published in detail.
The 2025 Guidelines use the most recent version of the AHA definitions for each Class of Recommendation and Level 
of Evidence (Figure 1). Overall, 760 specific recommendations are made for adult, pediatric, and neonatal life support; 
resuscitation education science; and systems of care. Of these recommendations, 233 are Class 1 recommendations and 
451 are Class 2 recommendations (Figure 2). Additionally, 76 recommendations are Class 3, including 55 for evidence of no 
benefit and 21 for evidence of harm. 
© 2025 American Heart Association     25-2500
1.	
Del Rios M, Bartos JA, Panchal AR, et al. Part 1: executive summary: 2025 American Heart Association Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation 
and Emergency Cardiovascular Care. Circulation. 2025;152(suppl 2):In press.
2.	
International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation. 2025 ILCOR Consensus on Science With Treatment Recommendations. Circulation. 
2025;152(suppl 1):In press.
The American Heart Association (AHA) thanks the following people for their contributions to the development of this publication:  
Ian R. Drennan, ACP, PhD; Stephen M. Schexnayder, MD; Jason Bartos, MD, PhD; Marina Del Rios, MD; Melissa Mahgoub, PhD; 
Ashish R. Panchal, MD, PhD; Amber J. Rodriguez, PhD; Julie Sell, MSN, RN; Comilla Sasson, MD, PhD; Jaylen Wright, PhD; and 
the AHA Guidelines Highlights Project Team.
Highlights of the 2025 American 
Heart Association Guidelines for 
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and 
Emergency Cardiovascular Care


=== PAGE 2 ===
2	
American Heart Association
Figure 1. Applying the ACC/AHA Class of Recommendation and Level of Evidence to Clinical Strategies, Interventions, Treatments, or 
Diagnostic Testing in Patient Care* (Updated December 2024).
CLASS (STRENGTH) OF RECOMMENDATION
CLASS 1 (STRONG)	
Benefit >>> Risk
Suggested phrases for writing recommendations:
•	 Is recommended
•	 Is indicated/useful/effective/beneficial
•	 Should be performed/administered/other
•	 Comparative-Effectiveness Phrases†:
	– Treatment/strategy A is recommended/indicated in preference to 
treatment B
	– Treatment A should be chosen over treatment B 
CLASS 2a (MODERATE)	
Benefit >> Risk
Suggested phrases for writing recommendations:
•	 Is reasonable
•	 Can be useful/effective/beneficial
•	 Comparative-Effectiveness Phrases†:
	– Treatment/strategy A is probably recommended/indicated in  
preference to treatment B
	– It is reasonable to choose treatment A over treatment B
CLASS 2b (WEAK)	
Benefit ≥ Risk
Suggested phrases for writing recommendations:
•	 May/might be reasonable
•	 May/might be considered
•	 Usefulness/effectiveness is unknown/unclear/uncertain or not well-
established
CLASS 3: No Benefit (MODERATE)	
Benefit = Risk 
(Generally, LOE A or B use only)
Suggested phrases for writing recommendations:
•	 Is not recommended
•	 Is not indicated/useful/effective/beneficial
•	 Should not be performed/administered/other
CLASS 3: Harm (STRONG)	
Risk > Benefit
Suggested phrases for writing recommendations:
•	 Potentially harmful
•	 Causes harm
•	 Associated with excess morbidity/mortality
•	 Should not be performed/administered/other
LEVEL (QUALITY) OF EVIDENCE‡
LEVEL A
•	 High-quality evidence‡ from more than 1 RCT
•	 Meta-analyses of high-quality RCTs
•	 One or more RCTs corroborated by high-quality registry studies
LEVEL B-R	
(Randomized)
•	 Moderate-quality evidence‡ from 1 or more RCTs
•	 Meta-analyses of moderate-quality RCTs
LEVEL B-NR	
(Nonrandomized)
•	 Moderate-quality evidence‡ from 1 or more well-designed, well-executed 
nonrandomized studies, observational studies, or registry studies
•	 Meta-analyses of such studies
LEVEL C-LD	
(Limited Data)
•	 Randomized or nonrandomized observational or registry studies with 
limitations of design or execution
•	 Meta-analyses of such studies
•	 Physiological or mechanistic studies in human subjects
LEVEL C-EO	
(Expert Opinion)
•	 Consensus of expert opinion based on clinical experience
COR and LOE are determined independently (any COR may be paired with any LOE).
A recommendation with LOE C does not imply that the recommendation is weak. Many 
important clinical questions addressed in guidelines do not lend themselves to clinical trials. 
Although RCTs are unavailable, there may be a very clear clinical consensus that a particular 
test or therapy is useful or effective.
*	 The outcome or result of the intervention should be specified (an improved clinical 
outcome or increased diagnostic accuracy or incremental prognostic information).
†	 For comparative-effectiveness recommendations (COR 1 and 2a; LOE A and B only), 
studies that support the use of comparator verbs should involve direct comparisons of 
the treatments or strategies being evaluated.
‡	 The method of assessing quality is evolving, including the application of standardized, 
widely used, and preferably validated evidence grading tools; and for systematic 
reviews, the incorporation of an Evidence Review Committee.
COR indicates Class of Recommendation; EO, expert opinion; LD, limited data; LOE, Level of 
Evidence; NR, nonrandomized; R, randomized; and RCT, randomized controlled trial.


=== PAGE 3 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 3
2025 Highlights
Figure 2. Distribution of COR and LOE as percent of 760 total recommendations in the 2025 AHA Guidelines for CPR and ECC.*
Abbreviations: EO, expert opinion; LD, limited data; NR, nonrandomized; R, randomized.
*Results are percent of 760 recommendations in the areas of adult basic and advanced life support (ALS), pediatric basic and advanced life support, 
neonatal life support, post–cardiac arrest care, resuscitation education science, special circumstances, and systems of care.
About the Recommendations
The fact that only 11 (1.4%) of these 760 recommendations are based on Level A evidence (at least 1 high-quality randomized 
clinical trial [RCT], corroborated by a second high-quality trial or registry study) testifies to the ongoing challenges in perform-
ing high-quality resuscitation research. A concerted national and international effort is needed to fund and otherwise support 
resuscitation research.
Both the ILCOR evidence-evaluation process and the AHA guidelines-development process are governed by strict 
disclosure policies designed to make relationships with industry and other conflicts of interest fully transparent and to protect 
these processes from undue influence. The AHA staff processed conflict-of-interest disclosures from all participants. All 
guidelines writing group chairs and at least 50% of guidelines writing group members were required to be free of all conflicts 
of interest, and all relevant relationships are disclosed in the respective guidelines publications.
Classes of Recommendation
Levels of Evidence


=== PAGE 4 ===
4	
American Heart Association
Ethics
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes 
CPR and ECC are prevalent in high-
stakes, unplanned situations. Health 
care professionals and organizations 
face challenging decisions at both indi-
vidual and system levels. This chapter 
provides an overview of ethical frame-
works that identify the obligations 
shared by health care professionals 
and organizations and offer frameworks 
through which difficult decisions can be 
analyzed. Previous Guidelines focused 
on ethical treatment recommendations 
(for example, recommending specific 
diagnostic tests to guide prognos-
tication after cardiac arrest) but did 
not provide detailed discussion of the 
underlying ethical principles or consid-
erations. The 2025 Guidelines chapter 
on ethics
•	 Provides narrative discussion focused 
specifically on ethics, with sufficient 
depth to allow readers to navigate 
the issues most encountered in this 
domain
•	 Multiple ethical frameworks, a 
preponderance of scholarship and 
expert consensus in this writing 
group support the imperative that 
HCPs and their organizations should 
actively address inequities in social 
determinants of health, thereby 
eliminating resulting disparities 
in cardiac arrest and emergency 
cardiovascular care.
•	 Reviews the many complexities in 
resuscitation, including the inability of 
the patient to participate in decisions 
and the challenges across the age 
continuum from newborns to geriatric 
patients, and considers the long-term 
effects of CPR on patients, families, 
and health care professionals alike
The writing group performed a compre-
hensive series of structured literature 
reviews. All content in this chapter 
is new compared with the content in 
previous Guidelines, although the un-
derlying ethical considerations are 
largely consistent with those that 
informed previous Guidelines.
Foundational Ethical Principles
Principlism is the predominant medical 
ethical framework. It is a delibera-
tive process centered on 4 coequal 
moral principles: beneficence, non-
maleficence, respect for autonomy, 
and justice. Ethical questions can be 
evaluated through the lens of each 
principle, offering perspectives that 
can be synthesized into a pluralis-
tic approach. Beneficence guides 
decisions that benefit patients. 
Nonmaleficence is the ethical obliga-
tion to not harm patients. Respect for 
autonomy focuses on honoring individ-
uals’ rights to make informed decisions 
about their own care. Justice is 
fairness, specifically the fair, equitable, 
and appropriate treatment of people.
Other ethical principles and 
frameworks are also relevant, including 
narrative ethics, crisis standards of 
care, virtue ethics, and dignity. These 
offer complementary perspectives; 
often, a combination of frameworks and 
principles can best address an ethical 
conflict.
Striving for Equitable Health and 
Resuscitation
The AHA’s goal of improving cardiovas-
cular health for all cannot be fully realized 
until inequities that drive health care 
outcome disparities are eliminated. Health 
inequities arise from social determinants 
of health and are both entirely preventable 
and deeply rooted in societal struc­tures. 
Failing to acknowledge and address these 
disparities allows systemic inequities to 
remain unchallenged and healthcare dis-
parities to persist. For this reason, HCPs 
and their organizations should actively 
address structural inequities in social de-
terminants of health, thereby eliminating 
resulting disparities in cardiac arrest and 
emergency cardiovascular care.
Ethical Decision-Making in 
Resuscitation
The need to make decisions to initiate 
or withhold resuscitative efforts, and 
whether to continue or terminate these 
therapies after initiation, is common. 
The default approach in many settings 
is to initiate treatment. It is critical to 
document an advanced care plan if a 
patient wishes to forgo these interven-
tions in case of an emergency. Portable 
orders for life-sustaining treatment are 
the best manner in which to do this. 
When patients’ wishes are not docu-
mented and they are unable to make 
independent decisions, surrogates do 
so on their behalf, using substituted 
judgement.
Shared decision-making is preferred 
when choosing from more than 
one medically reasonable option. 
This requires that (1) health care 
professionals ensure that a patient and/
or surrogate understands the current 
medical condition of the patient; (2) 
health care professionals outline the 
available medical options; (3) health 
care professionals elicit the patient’s 
goals, values, and preferences; (4) 
health care professionals make a 
recommendation aligned with the 
patient’s goals and values; (5) health 
care professionals support the patient 
and/or surrogate in their choice.
For adults in cardiac arrest, the 
default approach is to initiate CPR, 
except when this would pose a serious 
risk of physical harm to the health care 
professional, there are objective signs 
of irreversible death, or there is an 
advanced directive declining treatment. 
Accepting verbal requests from family 
to withhold CPR or informed nondissent 
is ethical under some circumstances. 
After initiation, predefined termination 
of resuscitation rules can minimize 
medically ineffective treatment and 
promote distributive justice. Pediatric 
and neonatal patients present unique 
ethical challenges for health care 
professionals. Detailed consideration 
of pediatric and neonatal patients can 


=== PAGE 5 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 5
2025 Highlights
be found in the respective guidelines 
chapters.
In some circumstances, one or 
more treatments may be of no realistic 
benefit to a given patient. Health 
care professionals are not ethically 
obligated to provide these treatments 
even when requested by surrogates. 
This determination is challenging, 
can be subjective, and may result in 
conflict. To minimize the chance that 
an individual health care professional’s 
perspectives and biases influence 
determinations of benefit and to 
protect health care professionals from 
moral distress, whenever possible 
these determinations should rely on 
an institutional committee or ethics 
consultant and be made in accordance 
with institutional policies.
Other Ethical Topics
Resuscitation research poses unique 
challenges. In resuscitation scenarios, 
patients with life-threatening emer-
gencies often lack capacity, there are 
narrow therapeutic windows for inter-
vention, and emotional reactions of 
surrogates preclude usual informed 
consent. Ethical pathways for research 
in these settings include exception 
from informed consent, waiver of 
informed consent, and prospective 
informed consent. Institutional review 
boards, not investigators, determine the 
appropriate regulatory pathways. It is 
unethical to bypass these requirements 
for activities meeting recognized defini-
tions of clinical research.
ECC can have a lasting effect on 
health care professionals’ physical and 
mental well-being. The AHA believes 
that health care professionals who 
perform resuscitation efforts must 
be protected from physical harm. 
Health care professionals also have 
duties in their professional capacities 
to provide treatment. Evidence-
based recommendations cannot 
fully address every clinical scenario 
or circumstance. When interpreting 
guidance in context, health care 
professionals should be mindful of 
their potential biases, be deliberate 
in their approach to decision-making, 
and apply a systematic approach to 
weighing the available evidence. Moral 
distress can occur when someone is 
providing CPR, particularly when health 
care professionals perceive attempts at 
CPR to be inappropriate. Organizations 
should provide policies and guidance 
for resuscitation and help health care 
professionals resolve disputes and 
address moral distress. Managing 
these complex situations should not fall 
on the individual alone.
Patients who survive CPR often 
experience lasting symptoms. 
Health care organizations have a 
responsibility to develop systems of 
care to optimize these patients’ long-
term health and well-being. Cardiac 
arrest can also have lasting impacts 
on laypersons. Although the primary 
duty of health care professionals is to 
the patient, ethical obligations extend 
to supporting families, caregivers, and 
others who surround the patient. For 
families, presence during CPR can 
reduce complicated grief and improve 
psychological outcomes. Institutions 
should develop policies that define 
circumstances or considerations that 
could preclude family presence and 
should ensure adequate resources and 
training to support the practice.
Crisis standards of care amend the 
standard of medical care in response 
to a disaster event. Crisis standards 
do not change or diminish health care 
professionals’ duty to patients, whose 
legal and ethical responsibilities are to 
take the same action that a reasonable 
health care professional would take 
under similar circumstances. Ethical 
norms of utilitarianism and fairness 
inform the design and implementation 
of crisis standards, which strive to 
provide a just distribution of resources 
and promote equitable health 
outcomes.
Extracorporeal CPR (ECPR) is a 
specific example of an advanced 
therapy that can be used to treat highly 
selected patients. Relevant ethical 
issues include limited data to guide 
patient selection, difficulty obtaining 
informed consent, high cost and 
resource utilization with associated 
questions of equitable distribution, 
and the role of these therapies in the 
possible transition from unsuccessful 
resuscitation to possible organ 
donation or withdrawal of life-sustaining 
therapies.
Organ and tissue donation should be 
considered in all postarrest patients 
who progress to death by neurological 
criteria or for whom withdrawal of 
life-sustaining therapies is planned. 
Decisions about end-of-life care should 
be made for the patient’s benefit 
before, and independently of, offering 
the option of organ donation to the 
patient or surrogate. Institutions should 
develop processes to promote public 
trust and avoid conflicts of interest.
Systems  
of Care
Survival after cardiac arrest requires in-
tegrated systems of people, protocols, 
policies, and resources along with 
ongoing data acquisition and review. 
The systems of care guidelines follow 
the unified cardiac arrest Chain of 
Survival (Figure 3), beginning with 
prevention and preparedness to re-
suscitate, then proceeding with early 
identification of cardiac arrest, then 
effective resuscitation through to post–
cardiac arrest care, survivorship, and 
recovery. Optimizing outcomes after 
cardiac arrest requires well-func-
tioning systems of care both in- and 
out-of-hospital as well as a commit-
ment to gather and analyze data aimed 
at quality improvement in every link of 
the Chain of Survival. 


=== PAGE 6 ===
6	
American Heart Association
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes
•	 A single Chain of Survival is intended 
to apply to adult and pediatric in-
hospital cardiac arrest (IHCA) and 
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). 
In creating this singular chain, it is 
acknowledged that before cardiac 
arrest, prevention and preparedness 
can both avoid the need for and 
optimize resuscitation. 
•	 Several recommendations have been 
consolidated into a knowledge chunk 
devoted to community initiatives 
to improve lay rescuer response to 
OHCA. Herein, the reader will find 
recommendations on system-based 
approaches intended to increase 
community awareness of cardiac 
arrest and the crucial role of lay 
rescuer CPR and automated external 
defibrillator use. 
•	 Recommendations for pediatrics and 
adults on the use of early warning 
systems and rapid response or 
medical emergency teams to prevent 
IHCA have been combined, with an 
additional recommendation about the 
use of safety huddles to prevent IHCA. 
•	 Policies to facilitate public access 
to naloxone are now recommended 
alongside public access to 
defibrillation because both have the 
potential to save lives.
•	 Telecommunicators are now provided 
with differing recommendations for 
adult and child CPR instructions; 
they are to guide lay rescuers to 
use Hands-Only CPR for adults and 
conventional CPR, including breaths, 
for children. The No-No-Go framework 
is reiterated as an effective method for 
recognizing OHCA. 
•	 Clinical debriefing recommendations 
are reiterated, with a new 
recommendation on incorporation 
of immediate (hot) and delayed (cold) 
debriefing following CPR events. 
•	 New recommendations are 
provided on in- and out-of-hospital 
resuscitation team composition. 
•	 Uncertainty remains on the timing of 
transport of patients with ongoing 
resuscitation and following return of 
spontaneous circulation (ROSC). This 
is addressed in several knowledge 
chunks that cover on-scene 
resuscitation (versus transport with 
ongoing CPR), transport for ECPR, and 
interfacility transfer to cardiac arrest 
centers. The latter knowledge chunks 
attempt to address important system 
considerations within cardiac arrest 
centers and ECPR centers. 
•	 New recommendations on creating 
a system of care to assure optimal 
postresuscitation recovery for cardiac 
arrest survivors are provided. 
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Prevention of IHCA
2025 (New): Implementation of safety 
huddles to improve situational aware-
ness in scenarios involving high-risk 
hospitalized patients and mitigate their 
deterioration can be effective in reduc-
ing cardiac arrest rates. 
Why: Two multicenter, observational 
quality-improvement projects imple-
menting a cardiac arrest bundle that 
includes safety huddles around high-
risk patients reduced IHCA within the 
pediatric cardiac and general intensive 
care units.
Public Access to Naloxone
2025 (New): Public policies should allow 
for possession, use, and immunity from 
civil and criminal liability for good-
faith administration of naloxone by lay 
rescuers. 
2025 (New): Naloxone distribution pro-
grams can be beneficial to increase 
naloxone availability among lay res-
cuers and decrease mortality from 
opioid-related overdose. 
Why: Observational studies that ex-
amined the impact of legislation that 
makes naloxone more readily available 
and protects lay rescuers from prose-
cution for possession or good-faith use, 
Defibrillation
High-Quality CPR
Post–Cardiac 
Arrest Care
Advanced 
Resuscitation
Recovery and 
Survivorship
Recognition and 
Emergency Activation
Figure 3. Cardiac arrest Chain of Survival.


=== PAGE 7 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 7
2025 Highlights
as well as programs aimed at distribut-
ing naloxone within communities, are 
generally associated with reductions in 
mortality.
Community Initiatives to Improve Lay 
Rescuer Response to OHCA
2025 (Updated): Implementing a bundle 
of community initiatives is a reasonable 
strategy to improve lay rescuer re-
sponse to OHCA. 
2025 (New): Increasing the availability of 
instructor-led training in communities 
can be effective to improve lay rescuer 
response to OHCA. 
2025 (New): Mass media campaigns may 
be considered to promote learning of 
CPR skills in all populations.
2025 (New): It may be reasonable for 
communities to implement policies that 
require CPR certification in the general 
public. 
Why: Improving lay rescuer response 
requires a multifaceted approach, and 
existing evidence supports numerous 
interventions as being effective.
Clinical Debriefing 
2025 (New): Incorporating immediate and 
delayed debriefing is reasonable and 
may identify different opportunities for 
system improvement. 
Why: Studies examining debriefing 
use immediate and delayed methods, 
although neither has been proved to be 
superior and the use of both may offer 
advantages.
OHCA Team Composition 
2025 (New): It can be beneficial to have 
an advanced life support (ALS)–level  
clinician present during the resuscita-
tion of a person with suspected OHCA. 
2025 (New): It is reasonable to ensure 
that emergency medical services (EMS) 
systems have a team size sufficient to 
achieve discretely assigned roles within 
the team. 
Why: Studies demonstrate that opti-
mizing OHCA resuscitation requires 
a sufficient team size to execute vital 
roles and sufficient training to provide 
advanced management.
In-Hospital Code Team Composition 
2025 (New): In-hospital code teams 
should comprise members with ALS 
training. 
2025 (New): Designated or dedicat-
ed code teams with clearly defined 
roles, diverse expertise, and adequate 
training that incorporates simulation 
can be beneficial in improving patient 
outcomes following IHCA. 
Why: Akin to OHCA teams, IHCA code 
teams benefit from advanced training 
and defined roles with simulation-based 
training to support team members in 
those roles.
On-Scene OHCA Resuscitation 
2025 (New): EMS systems should be 
prepared to perform termination of 
resuscitation on scene; this involves 
EMS professionals receiving training on 
death notification.
2025 (New): Prioritizing on-scene resus-
citation focused on achieving sustained 
ROSC before initiation of transport for 
most adults and children experiencing 
OHCA can be beneficial in the absence 
of special circumstances. 
Why: Remaining on-scene for the 
entire resuscitation will inevitably 
result in many deaths, so training on 
when to terminate efforts and how to 
provide notification to family is crucial 
to providing compassionate care and 
avoiding burnout. Attempting to trans-
port patients to the hospital while CPR 
is ongoing compromises CPR quality 
and can risk the safety of rescuers and 
should be reserved for situations where 
it is believed to significantly improve the 
patient’s odds of survival.
Extracorporeal Systems of Care 
2025 (New): It is reasonable that centers 
with ECPR programs develop and 
frequently reassess patient selection 
criteria to maximize cardiac arrest 
survival, ensure equitable access, and 
limit futility. 
2025 (New): It is reasonable that clini-
cians performing adult peripheral ECPR 
cannulation be experienced in percuta-
neous technique.
2025 (New): A regionalized approach to 
ECPR is reasonable to optimize out-
comes and resource utilization.
2025 (New): Rapid intra-arrest transport 
for ECPR may be considered for limited, 
highly selected adult OHCA patients.
Why: ECPR is resource intensive and 
requires specialized, highly trained 
teams. These factors make regional-
ization attractive, but the requirement 
for intra-arrest transport in the setting 
of OHCA and the resource intensity 
require careful patient selection.
Organ Donation 
2025 (New): Institutions should develop 
systems of care focused on facilitating 
and evaluating organ donation after 
cardiac arrest consistent with local 
legal and regulatory requirements. 
Why: Policies aimed at increasing 
organ donation vary internationally 
and are closely linked to the values and 
culture of the nation where they are 
implemented.
Improving Cardiac Arrest Recovery
2025 (New): The recovery and long-term 
functional outcomes of cardiac arrest 
survivors are likely to benefit from the 
use of integrated systems that assess 
patients before discharge, reassess 
their needs after discharge, and 
address these needs on an ongoing 
basis during recovery.
Why: Rehabilitation of cardiac arrest 
survivors can improve long-term out-


=== PAGE 8 ===
8	
American Heart Association
comes, but implementation requires 
coordination of a multidisciplinary 
team that spans providers both in- and 
out-of-hospital.
Neonatal Life 
Support 
There are about 4 million births in the 
United States and Canada each year. 
One of every 10 to 20 newborn infants 
will need help transitioning from the  
fluid-filled environment of the womb 
to the air-filled room. It is essential that 
every newborn infant requiring this 
care has a health care professional 
who is trained and equipped for the role 
dedicated to facilitating that transition. 
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes 
•	 The newborn chain of care starts with 
prenatal care and extends to recovery 
and appropriate follow-up in the 
postnatal period. 
•	 Newborn resuscitation requires 
anticipation and preparation by 
health care professionals who train 
individually and as teams. 
•	 Most newborn infants can be 
evaluated and monitored during 
deferred cord clamping for 60 
seconds or more and can maintain 
skin-to-skin contact with a parent 
after birth. 
•	 Effective ventilation of the lungs is  
the priority in newborn infants who 
need resuscitation. 
•	 Some new recommendations, such 
as positioning for chest compression, 
timing of pulse oximeter placement, 
and ventilation corrective steps, 
are practices that may already be 
commonly performed but have 
been added with review of the latest 
evidence. 
•	 Ventilation corrective steps, which 
include use of an alternative airway 
like a laryngeal mask or endotracheal 
tube, may be required if the heart 
rate does not rise with face-mask 
ventilation. 
Algorithms and Visual Aids 
The Neonatal Resuscitation Algorithm 
(Figure 4) has been updated to 
emphasize the importance of umbilical 
cord management at birth. The target 
oxygen saturation table starts at 
2 minutes because deferred cord 
clamping for 60 seconds or more 
means that oxygen saturation at 1 
minute will not routinely be obtained. 
Electrocardiography is recommended 
before chest compressions. 
Newborn outcomes are affected by 
the overall context in which neonatal 
resuscitation occurs, including the 
systems of care before, during, and 
after birth. The newborn chain of care 
(Figure 5) provides a framework for 
addressing essential elements of 
the health care system to enhance 
newborn health.
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Umbilical Cord Management 
2025 (Updated): For term newborn infants 
who do not require immediate resus-
citation, deferred cord clamping for 
at least 60 seconds can be beneficial 
when compared with immediate cord 
clamping. 
Why: Meta-analyses have shown that 
hematologic indices and iron status in 
infancy are improved with deferred cord 
clamping. Recent studies that extend 
deferral to 60 seconds compared with 
early cord clamping have affirmed these 
findings. 
2025 (New): For nonvigorous term 
newborn infants and late preterm 
infants 35 weeks or more gestational 
age, intact cord milking may be reason-
able when compared with immediate 
cord clamping. 
Why: A large RCT of nonvigorous infants 
35 to 42 weeks gestation reported that 
intact umbilical cord milking com-
pared with early cord clamping was 
associated with decreases in rates of 
cardiorespiratory support, moderate 
to severe hypoxic ischemic enceph-
alopathy, and use of therapeutic 
hypothermia. 
2025 (Updated): For newborn infants born 
at less than 37 weeks of gestation who 
do not require immediate resuscitation, 
deferred cord clamping for at least 60 
seconds is recommended when com-
pared with immediate cord clamping. 
Why: Meta-analyses have shown that 
preterm newborn infants who received 
deferred cord clamping for 60 seconds 
or more compared with immediate cord 
clamping had reduction in mortality 
compared with those who had immedi-
ate cord clamping.
Ventilation and Continuous Positive 
Airway Pressure 
2025 (Updated): For newborn infants, 
initial peak inflation pressures of 20 to 
30 cm H2O are reasonable, with ad-
justment of peak inflation pressures to 
provide effective ventilation. 
Why: Observational studies in preterm 
and term newborn infants have report-
ed peak inflation pressures up to 30 
cm H2O or more, corresponding to tidal 
volumes that are considered adequate 
for newborn ventilation. Pressures can 
be adjusted as effective ventilation is 
achieved. 
2025 (Updated): It is reasonable to 
provide ventilation at a rate of 30 to  
60/min in newborn infants. 
Why: An observational study reported 
that ventilation at a rate of 30 to 60/
min resulted in delivered tidal volumes 
between 5 mL/kg and 10 mL/kg. An 
observational study of late preterm and 
term newborns reported that an infla-
tion rate of 30/min was associated with 
the highest carbon dioxide clearance. 
2025 (New): Video laryngoscopy can be 
useful for newborn infants who require 
endotracheal intubation. 
Why: In a meta-analysis of 6 RCTs  


=== PAGE 9 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 9
2025 Highlights
Figure 4. Neonatal Resuscitation Algorithm.
Yes
No
Yes
1 minute
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
No
Target Oxygen Saturation Table
  2 min
65%-70%
  3 min
70%-75%
  4 min
75%-80%
  5 min
80%-85%
 10 min
85%-95%
Term gestation? 
Good tone? 
Breathing or crying?
Apnea or gasping?  
HR <100/min?
Labored breathing or  
persistent cyanosis?
HR <100/min?
Skin to skin with parent
Routine care
Maintain normal temperature
Ongoing evaluation
© 2025 American Heart Association and American Academy of Pediatrics
Warm and maintain normal temperature
Dry
Position
Stimulate and clear airway if needed
Ventilate
Pulse oximeter
Consider cardiac monitor 
Ventilation corrective steps 
Consider intubation or laryngeal mask 
Cardiac monitor
Pulse oximeter
Oxygen if needed
Consider CPAP
Postresuscitation care
Communicate with family
Team debriefing
Intubate or laryngeal mask 
Chest compressions
Coordinate 3:1 with ventilation
100% oxygen
UVC or IO
UVC or IO epinephrine every 3-5 minutes
If HR remains <60/min:
 • Consider hypovolemia
 • Consider pneumothorax
HR <60/min?
HR <60/min?
Birth
Initiate cord management plan
Antenatal counseling
Team briefing
Equipment check


=== PAGE 10 ===
10	
American Heart Association
involving intubations, video laryn-
goscopy compared with traditional 
laryngoscopy led to increased intuba-
tion success. Traditional laryngoscopy 
remains a reasonable method to 
achieve endotracheal intubation. 
2025 (New): It is reasonable to use a 
laryngeal mask as an alternative to 
endotracheal intubation for newborn 
infants at 34 0/7 weeks or more gesta-
tional age for whom ventilation via face 
mask is unsuccessful. 
Why: In 4 RCTs, there was no signif-
icant difference in insertion time or 
first attempt success when a laryngeal 
mask (supraglottic airway) was used as 
a secondary device instead of endo-
tracheal intubation after face-mask 
ventilation was unsuccessful. In 1 ob-
servational study, the use of a laryngeal 
mask instead of an endotracheal tube 
was associated with decreased admis-
sion to the neonatal intensive care unit. 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to use a 
laryngeal mask as the primary interface 
to administer ventilation instead of a 
face mask for newborn infants born at 
34 0/7 weeks or more gestational age. 
Why: A meta-analysis of 6 RCTs found 
that the use of a laryngeal mask, 
compared with the use of a face mask, 
decreased probability of failure to 
improve with the assigned device and 
the rate of endotracheal intubation.  
Duration of ventilation and time until 
heart rate reached greater than 100/min 
were shorter with the laryngeal mask. 
Oxygen 
2025 (New): A pulse oximeter should be 
placed as soon as possible for newborn 
infants receiving respiratory support or 
supplemental oxygen. 
Why: Placement of a pulse oximeter 
early in resuscitation results in earlier 
reading of oxygen saturation for 
guidance of therapy. In observational 
studies, median time to obtain pulse 
oximetry reading ranged from 238 to 
260 seconds and was longer in preterm 
infants compared with term infants. 
2025 (Updated): In preterm newborn 
infants born at less than 32 weeks’ 
gestational age receiving respiratory 
support at birth, it may be reasonable to 
begin with 30% to 100% oxygen. 
Why: Analyses of available studies for 
this population have led to conclusions 
that conflict with those of a study-level 
meta-analysis of 10 RCTs showing no 
difference in short-term mortality when 
initial oxygen concentration was low 
compared with when it was high (with 
low oxygen generally being considered 
21%-30% and high oxygen 60%-100% 
in these studies). A recent individual 
patient data meta-analysis found that 
high initial oxygen concentration of 
90% to 100% was associated with 
lower mortality when compared with 
low initial oxygen concentration of 21% 
to 30%. Oxygen concentration can be 
titrated down as targets are achieved.
Chest Compressions 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
compress over the lower third of the 
sternum, taking care to be above the 
xiphoid process when providing chest 
compressions to newborn infants. 
Why: An autopsy study of infants and 
young children found that providing 
midsternum compressions was not 
associated with liver rupture. Super-
ficial tears of the liver capsule were 
produced when compressions were 
applied to the xiphoid process, and all 
patients with simultaneous chest and 
abdominal compressions or abdominal 
compressions alone had liver rupture. 
Chest radiograph studies identify that 
the heart lies under the lower third of 
the sternum in most infants. 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
change compressors every 2 to 5 
minutes when providing chest com-
pressions to newborn infants and to 
switch compressors while heart rate is 
being assessed. 
Why: High-quality chest compressions 
encompass multiple factors, including 
optimal compression-to-ventilation 
ratio, adequate rate, adequate depth of 
compression, and full recoil between 
compressions. Neonatal manikin 
studies demonstrate that compression 
quality can diminish by 2 to 5 minutes 
when a single clinician performs 
compressions. 
Figure 5. Newborn chain of care.
Ventilation
Initial Steps
Postnatal Care
Advanced 
Resuscitation
Recovery
Recognition 
and Activation
Prevention


=== PAGE 11 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 11
2025 Highlights
Pediatric  
Basic Life 
Support 
Every year in the United States, more 
than 7000 OHCAs and approximate-
ly 20 000 IHCAs occur in infants and 
children. Despite increases in survival 
and comparatively good rates of 
favorable neurologic outcome after 
pediatric IHCA, survival rates from 
pediatric OHCA remain poor, partic-
ularly in infants. The Chain of Survival 
requires coordinated efforts from 
medical professionals in a variety of dis-
ciplines and, in the case of OHCA, from 
lay responders, telecommunicators, 
and emergency responders. 
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes 
•	 Cardiac arrest in infants and children 
does not usually result from a primary 
cardiac cause; rather, it is typically the 
result of progressive respiratory failure 
or shock. 
•	 Given the secondary nature of 
most pediatric cardiac arrest, early 
recognition of the critically ill infant 
or child by the caregiver, lay rescuer 
CPR training, and prompt access 
to emergency care are critical to 
improving outcomes. 
•	 High-quality CPR and early 
defibrillation for shockable rhythms 
together are the cornerstone of 
treatment for pediatric cardiac arrest 
and must be provided to all patients 
for other therapies to be effective.
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Components of High-Quality CPR 
2025 (New): For infants and children in 
cardiac arrest, interruptions in CPR 
should be minimized and pauses in 
chest compressions should be less 
than 10 seconds. 
Why: Evidence from a multinational, 
multi-institutional observational cohort 
registry demonstrated that increased 
frequency and duration of pauses in 
CPR were significantly associated with 
a lower probability of achieving ROSC. 
Sequence of Resuscitation 
2025 (Updated): For infants, rescuers 
should compress the sternum with the 
heel of 1 hand or using the 2 thumb– 
encircling hands technique. If the 
rescuer cannot physically encircle the 
chest, it is recommended to compress 
the chest with the heel of 1 hand. 
Why: Systematic reviews and meta-
analyses from simulation studies 
suggest that the 2 thumb–encircling 
hands technique is the superior 
technique for giving compressions 
to infants when compared with the 
2-finger technique, particularly 
for achieving adequate depth. In a 
multicenter prospective observational 
registry study, the single-hand 
technique resulted in greater 
compression depth than the 2-thumb 
technique in infants, with no difference 
in chest compression rate between 
hand positions. The 2-finger technique 
was utilized rarely in this study, but 
when used, no chest compression 
segments were compliant with AHA 
guidelines. Given this, the heel-of-1-
hand or 2 thumb–encircling hands 
technique is recommended for infants. 
The long-used 2-finger technique for 
infant CPR is no longer recommended.
Foreign-Body Airway Obstruction 
2025 (Updated): For children with severe 
foreign-body airway obstruction 
(FBAO), repeated cycles of 5 back blows 
alternated with 5 abdominal thrusts 
should be performed until the object is 
expelled or the child becomes unre-
sponsive (see updated algorithm).
Why: Many FBAOs are relieved by allow-
ing the patient to cough or, if severe, by 
lay rescuers using chest or abdominal 
thrusts. A recent observational study 
of adult and pediatric FBAOs suggests 
improved clearance of a foreign body 
with the use of back blows over ab-
dominal thrusts. To create consistency 
for instructional purposes, and in the 
absence of inferiority from pediatric 
data, management of severe FBAO in 
children now starts with a series of back 
blows instead of abdominal thrusts. Re-
peated cycles of 5 back blows followed 
by 5 abdominal thrusts are performed 
until the obstruction is cleared or the 
child becomes unresponsive. 
2025 (Updated): For infants with severe 
FBAO, repeated cycles of 5 back 
blows alternating with 5 chest thrusts 
should be performed until the object 
is expelled or the infant becomes 
unresponsive.
Why: Abdominal thrusts are not recom-
mended for infants, given the potential 
to cause abdominal organ injury. The 
heel-of-1-hand technique for chest 
thrusts is now recommended for infants 
with severe FBAO. While the heel-of-
1-hand technique for chest thrusts 
resembles chest compressions that are 
used as part of CPR, there is no focus 
on the other components of high- 
quality CPR chest compressions (eg, 
rate, recoil), so the term chest compres-
sion is not used.
Adult Basic 
Life Support
OHCA and IHCA impact hundreds of 
thousands of persons annually in the 
United States. There is significant 
variation in rates of lay rescuer CPR, 
public automated external defibril-
lator use, EMS response times, and 
survival to discharge among geograph-
ic regions. Survival for adults after 
OHCA and IHCA decreased during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 


=== PAGE 12 ===
12	
American Heart Association
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes 
•	 Early high-quality CPR and prompt 
defibrillation are the most important 
interventions associated with 
improved outcomes in adult  
cardiac arrest. 
•	 For an adult with head and neck 
trauma, if the airway cannot be 
opened with a jaw thrust and airway 
adjunct insertion, rescuers should 
open the airway using a head  
tilt–chin lift. 
•	 For adult cardiac arrest, rescuers 
should perform chest compressions 
with the patient on a firm surface 
and with the patient’s torso at 
approximately the level of the 
rescuer’s knees. 
•	 When providing ventilation for an 
adult patient with respiratory arrest, 
it is reasonable for the health care 
professional to give 1 ventilation every 
6 seconds, or 10 breaths/min, with 
each ventilation creating visible  
chest rise. 
•	 CPR for adults with obesity who are in 
cardiac arrest should be provided in 
the same way as for patients without 
obesity. 
•	 The routine use of mechanical CPR 
devices is not recommended for adult 
cardiac arrest. 
•	 For adults with severe FBAO, repeated 
cycles of 5 back blows (slaps) followed 
by 5 abdominal thrusts should be 
performed until the object is expelled 
or the person becomes unresponsive. 
Algorithms and Visual Aids 
The Health Care Professional Basic Life 
Support (BLS) Algorithm was updated 
to illustrate the role of opioid antag-
onists (eg, naloxone) for suspected 
opioid overdose during respiratory 
and cardiac arrest. A simplified visual 
aid for lay rescuers emphasizes early 
activation of the EMS system and 
obtaining an automated external de-
fibrillator in addition to initiation of chest 
compressions. 
A new algorithm for the management 
of adult FBAO (Figure 6) was added 
to show the approach of using back 
blows as the initial maneuver, followed 
by abdominal thrusts. For patients 
with severe obstruction, the rescuer 
is directed to activate the emergency 
response system because once the 
person becomes unconscious, they 
can rapidly progress to cardiac arrest.
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Airway Management
2025 (Updated): For an adult with head 
and neck trauma, if the airway cannot 
be opened with a jaw thrust and airway 
adjunct insertion, trained rescuers 
should open the airway using a head 
tilt–chin lift. 
Why: It is a priority to open a trauma 
patient’s airway. While a jaw thrust is 
preferred in the setting of head and 
neck trauma, emphasis for trauma 
patients is placed on the importance 
of a patent airway for oxygenation and 
ventilation. 
Ventilation
2025 (Updated): When ventilating an adult 
patient in cardiac arrest, it is reasonable 
to give enough tidal volume to produce 
visible chest rise. 
2025 (Updated): When providing breaths 
to adult patients in cardiac arrest, 
rescuers should avoid hypoventilation 
(too few breaths or too  little volume) or 
hyperventilation (too many breaths or 
too large a volume). 
Why: Recent studies have shown that 
rescuers often fail to deliver ventilation 
in accordance with guidelines. In these 
studies, CPR with both effective ven-
tilation and chest compressions was 
associated with improved outcomes. 
Compression-to-Ventilation Ratio 
2025 (Updated): It is reasonable for lay 
rescuers and health care professionals 
to perform CPR with cycles of 30 com-
pressions followed by 2 breaths before 
placement of an advanced airway (eg, 
supraglottic airway or endotracheal 
tube). 
Why: The majority of studies report no 
difference in patient outcomes between 
interrupted CPR with ventilation pauses 
and continuous chest compressions. 
However, recent evidence has shown 
that ventilation is often not adequate; 
the use of CPR with cycles of 30  
compressions followed by 2 breaths—
as opposed to continuous chest 
compressions—allows the rescuer to 
monitor for chest rise and, therefore, to 
check for adequate ventilation. 
Defibrillation Pads 
2025 (New): When placing pads for de-
fibrillation for an adult in cardiac arrest, 
it might be reasonable to adjust the 
position of a bra instead of removing it.
Why: Women experience significantly 
lower rates of public-access defibril-
lation compared with men. The need 
to apply pads or paddles directly to 
the bare chest may be a contributing 
factor. The option to adjust rather than 
remove a bra could mitigate factors like 
a rescuer’s discomfort with exposing a 
woman’s chest. 
CPR for Adults With Obesity 
2025 (New): CPR for adults with obesity 
who are in cardiac arrest should be 
provided using the same techniques as 
for patients without obesity. 
Why: A 2024 ILCOR scoping review 
included 34 observational studies eval-
uating cardiac arrest in adult patients 
with obesity and found no evidence to 
support changes from standard CPR. 


=== PAGE 13 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 13
2025 Highlights
Alternative Techniques for CPR 
2025 (Updated): The routine use of 
mechanical CPR devices is not recom-
mended for adult cardiac arrest. 
2025 (New): In adult cardiac arrest, the 
use of mechanical CPR devices may be 
considered in specific settings where 
the delivery of high-quality manual 
compressions may be challenging or 
dangerous for the health care profes-
sionals as long as they strictly limit 
interruptions in CPR during deployment 
and removal of the device. 
Why: Numerous RCTs have demon-
strated no difference in patient survival 
between manual CPR and mechanical 
CPR. There may be specific circum-
stances, however, in which the use of 
mechanical CPR devices may provide 
logistical or safety advantages. These 
situations are not represented in 
current clinical trials.
Foreign-Body Airway Obstruction 
2025 (Updated): For adults with severe 
FBAO, repeated cycles of 5 back blows 
(slaps) followed by 5 abdominal thrusts 
should be performed until the object 
is expelled or the person becomes 
unresponsive. 
Why: Studies of adults with FBAO 
showed that back blows were asso-
ciated with improved rates of FBAO 
relief and fewer injuries compared with 
abdominal thrusts. The recommenda-
tion for alternating sets of 5 back blows 
and 5 abdominal thrusts is based on the 
value of consistency with existing infant 
and pediatric guidelines that use this 
approach. 
Figure 6. Adult FBAO Algorithm.
Verify scene safety.
Activate emergency 
response system.
Check for signs of severe FBAO
 • Weak or absence of cough
 • Unable to speak
 • Change in color (cyanosis)
 • Altered mental status
 • Apnea
Absent
 • Encourage cough.
 • Continue to check for 
signs of severe FBAO.
Present
No
Is the adult  
responsive?
Yes
Start repeated cycles of
 • 5 back blows (slaps), followed by
 • 5 abdominal thrusts*
 • Repeat until object is expelled or the 
adult becomes unresponsive.
 • If object is expelled, continue to 
monitor until advanced care arrives.
Start CPR until advanced care 
arrives; refer to  
adult BLS algorithm.
 • Start with compressions.
 • Check for visible object in 
mouth before giving breaths.
*For patients in the late stages of pregnancy, or when the rescuer is unable to encircle 
the patient’s abdomen, 5 chest thrusts should be used instead.
© 2025 American Heart Association


=== PAGE 14 ===
14	
American Heart Association
Pediatric  
Advanced 
Life Support
Given the poor outcomes previously 
noted for pediatric OHCA, significant 
opportunity to improve resuscitation 
remains in all phases of care. Growing 
research in pediatric resuscitation 
through both in- and out-of-hospital  
resuscitation networks is making 
major contributions toward advancing 
knowledge and has resulted in several 
changes in the 2025 Guidelines.
•	 This chapter includes updates about 
medications used during cardiac 
arrest, including changes in class 
of recommendation for several 
medications.
•	 New recommendations are provided 
as a result of the growing monitoring 
data available to drive best practice 
after cardiac arrest.
•	 For the first time, the guidelines 
include information on the complex 
task of predicting neurologic 
outcome after cardiac arrest 
(neuroprognostication), both for 
favorable and unfavorable outcomes.
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Drug Administration During  
Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (Updated): For infants and children 
in cardiac arrest with initial non-
shockable rhythm, it is reasonable to 
administer the initial dose of epineph-
rine as early as possible. 
Why: A recent systematic review of 
7 observational studies identified 
that shorter time to administration of 
epinephrine in OHCA and IHCA was 
associated with increased rates of 
favorable outcome. Time to first dose 
of epinephrine less than 3 minutes was 
associated with highest rates of favor-
able outcome, although there was no 
direct comparison across time to first 
epinephrine dose intervals (eg, <5 min, 
<10 min). 
Measuring Physiology During CPR 
2025 (Updated): For infants and children 
with invasive airways in place during 
CPR, end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2) 
monitoring may be considered to 
monitor CPR quality. 
2025 (New): A specific ETCO2 cutoff 
value alone should not be used as an 
indication to end resuscitative efforts in 
infants and children. 
Why: Monitoring exhaled carbon dioxide 
levels among patients receiving CPR 
with an invasive airway is important 
because ETCO2 reflects native cardiac 
output and ventilation efficacy as well 
as feedback on CPR quality. In a recent 
prospective multicenter study that eval-
uated average ETCO2 during the first 10 
minutes of in-hospital CPR in children, 
ETCO2 values 20 mm Hg or greater 
during CPR were associated with in-
creased odds of ROSC and survival to 
discharge as well as higher intra-arrest 
blood pressures. There was no asso-
ciation with CPR quality metrics, such 
as chest compression rate and depth. 
However, when rescuers are consider-
ing termination of resuscitative efforts, 
it is vital that they avoid using a specific 
ETCO2 cutoff value alone because 
survival has been noted in patients with 
average ETCO2 less than 20 mm Hg. 
2025 (New): For infants and children 
with continuous invasive arterial blood 
pressure monitoring in place during 
CPR, it may be reasonable for health 
care professionals to target a diastolic 
blood pressure of 25 mm Hg or greater 
in infants and 30 mm Hg or greater in 
children 1 year of age or older. 
Why: A new study shows that among 
pediatric patients receiving CPR with 
an invasive arterial line in place, rates 
of survival with favorable neurologic 
outcome were improved if the diastolic 
blood pressure was at least 25 mm Hg 
in infants and at least 30 mm Hg in 
children. 
Treatment of Supraventricular 
Tachycardia With a Pulse 
2025 (Updated): For infants and children 
with supraventricular tachycardia 
and cardiopulmonary compromise 
unresponsive to vagal maneuvers, 
adenosine, and electrical synchronized 
cardioversion and for whom expert 
consultation is not available, it may be 
reasonable to consider intravenous (IV) 
procainamide, amiodarone, or sotalol. 
Why: Procainamide and amiodarone are 
moderately effective treatments for 
adenosine-resistant supraventricular 
tachycardia , although adverse effects 
may occur with both therapies. Sotalol 
was approved for the treatment of 
supraventricular tachycardia in 2009, 
with several studies demonstrating 
effectiveness in acute conversion of 
supraventricular tachycardia when it 
is administered under the guidance of 
pediatric electrophysiologists in acute 
care settings and reporting minimal 
adverse events. 
Post–Cardiac Arrest Management 
2025 (Updated): After cardiac arrest in 
infants and children, it is recommended 
to maintain systolic and mean arterial 
blood pressure greater than the 10th 
percentile for age. 
Why: Because blood pressure is often 
labile in the post–cardiac arrest period, 
recognition of hypotension (less than 
fifth percentile for age and sex) is 
important. Hypotension is common fol-
lowing return of circulation from cardiac 
arrest, occurring in 25% to 50% of 
infants and children. Two observational 
studies associated systolic blood pres-
sure below the fifth percentile for age 
in the first 12 hours following cardiac 
arrest with decreased rates of survival 
to discharge. In addition, a secondary 
analysis of the ICU-Resuscitation trial 
of pediatric IHCA found higher rates of 
survival to hospital discharge as well 


=== PAGE 15 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 15
2025 Highlights
as survival to hospital discharge with 
favorable neurologic outcome when 
blood pressure targets were above a 
threshold of systolic blood pressure 
greater than the 10th percentile for age 
and diastolic blood pressure greater 
than 50th percentile for age during the 
first 6 hours post–cardiac arrest. 
Prognostication Following  
Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (Updated): It is recommended that 
health care professionals consider mul-
tiple modalities when they are predicting 
neurological outcomes (favorable or 
unfavorable after resuscitation from 
cardiac arrest in infants and children). 
2025 (New): The usefulness of cough 
or gag reflexes or response to pain 
to support a favorable or unfavorable 
neurological prognosis at any time 
point after cardiac arrest in infants and 
children is not well established. 
2025 (New): When interpreted in the context 
of other prognostic criteria, it is reasonable 
to use electroencephalography (EEG) up 
to 72 hours after cardiac arrest in infants 
and children to support a favorable or 
unfavorable neurological prognosis. 
Why: Two systematic reviews evalu-
ated the association of neurological 
examination, biomarkers, EEG, and 
neurological imaging modalities with fa-
vorable and unfavorable outcomes after 
resuscitation from pediatric cardiac 
arrest. None of these modalities were 
assessed in isolation, and none met 
prespecified accuracy to be used as 
a lone prognostic criterion at any time 
point; thus, despite recommendations 
around individual tests, none should be 
used in isolation to predict outcome. 
Electroencephalography is a modality 
that may be used in conjunction with 
other tests based on numerous studies 
to prognosticate outcome. However, 
data are lacking to support the use of 
a cough or gag reflex to predict favor-
able or unfavorable outcome. Clinicians 
should consider multiple modalities 
when assessing the neurological prog-
nosis of survivors after cardiac arrest. 
Post–Cardiac Arrest Recovery  
and Survivorship 
2025 (Updated): It is reasonable that 
infants and children who survive 
cardiac arrest be evaluated for physi-
cal, cognitive, and emotional needs to 
guide follow-up care within the first year 
following cardiac arrest. 
Why: There is growing recognition that 
recovery from cardiac arrest continues 
long after initial hospitalization. Survi-
vors may require ongoing integrated 
medical, rehabilitative, caregiver, and 
community support in the months to 
years after their cardiac arrest. A recent 
AHA scientific statement highlights the 
importance of supporting patients and 
families during this time to achieve the 
best possible long-term outcome. 
Adult  
Advanced 
Life Support
Survival to hospital discharge after 
EMS-treated OHCA remains low, at 
approximately 10%, while survival to 
hospital discharge rates for IHCA are 
around 24%. Among those who survive 
to discharge, approximately 85% 
have favorable neurological outcome. 
Immediate high-quality CPR and timely 
defibrillation are the cornerstones of 
effective resuscitation. However, ALS 
interventions, including advanced 
airway management, pharmacologic 
therapies, and coordinated postresus-
citation care in both prehospital and 
in-hospital settings remain essential for 
improving patient outcomes. 
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes 
•	 Arrhythmias (such as tachycardias) 
can be both the cause of and a 
manifestation of clinical instability. 
Evaluating the proximal cause of that 
instability will direct professionals to the 
most judicious use of these guidelines. 
•	 Higher first-shock energy settings 
(≥200 J) are preferable to lower 
settings for cardioversion of atrial 
fibrillation (AF) and atrial flutter.
•	 In addition to updates to 
double sequential defibrillation 
recommendations, recommendations 
for vector change defibrillation were 
added based on new literature. 
Algorithms and Visual Aids 
The Termination of Resuscitation 
Algorithm was updated to include BLS 
and universal termination of resuscita-
tion rules. An updated algorithm for the 
management of bradycardia in adults 
with a pulse has been added. 
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Vector Change and Double  
Sequential Defibrillation
2025 (New): The usefulness of vector 
change defibrillation for adults in 
cardiac arrest with persisting ventric-
ular fibrillation/pulseless ventricular 
tachycardia after 3 or more consecutive 
shocks has not been established. 
2025 (Updated): The usefulness of double 
sequential defibrillation for adults in 
cardiac arrest with persisting ventric-
ular fibrillation/pulseless ventricular 
tachycardia after 3 or more consecutive 
shocks has not been established. 
Why: A 2023 ILCOR International 
Consensus on CPR and ECC Science 
With Treatment Recommendations 
identified a single small RCT supporting 
the use of vector change defibrillation 
and double sequential defibrillation for 
refractory ventricular fibrillation. There 
are a number of outstanding questions 
about the impact of these interventions 
that require further investigation. 


=== PAGE 16 ===
16	
American Heart Association
Initial Vascular Access
2025 (Updated): It is recommended that 
health care professionals first attempt 
establishing IV access for drug admin-
istration in adult patients in cardiac 
arrest. 
2025 (Updated): Intraosseous (IO) access 
is reasonable if initial attempts at IV 
access are unsuccessful or not feasible 
for adult patients in cardiac arrest.
Why: A 2025 ILCOR systematic review 
and meta-analysis, including data from 
3 recent large RCTs, found that the use 
of IO access compared with IV access 
did not result in a statistically signifi-
cant improvement in outcomes. This 
systematic review noted lower odds of 
achieving sustained ROSC for the IO 
route compared with the IV route. 
Vasopressor Medications 
2025 (Updated): In consideration of 
timing, for adult patients in cardiac 
arrest with a shockable rhythm, it is rea-
sonable to administer epinephrine after 
initial defibrillation attempts have failed. 
Why: The literature supports prioritizing 
rapid defibrillation and administering 
epinephrine after initial attempts with 
CPR and defibrillation are not success-
ful in patients with shockable rhythms. 
2025 (Updated): Vasopressin alone 
or vasopressin in combination with 
epinephrine offers no advantage as 
a substitute for epinephrine for adult 
patients in cardiac arrest. 
Why: Multiple systematic reviews and 
meta-analyses of RCTs and observa-
tional studies have found no difference 
in survival outcomes when compar-
ing vasopressin alone or vasopressin 
combined with epinephrine versus 
epinephrine alone. 
Nonvasopressor Medications
2025 (New): For adults in cardiac arrest, 
the use of β-blockers, bretylium, pro-
cainamide, or sotalol for ventricular 
fibrillation/pulseless ventricular tachy-
cardia unresponsive to defibrillation is 
of uncertain benefit. 
Why: No new evidence emerged from a 
2025 ILCOR evidence update about the 
use of other parenteral antiarrhythmic 
agents in cardiac arrest. These include 
bretylium tosylate (which was recent-
ly reintroduced to the United States 
market with no new evidence on its 
effectiveness or safety). 
Adjuncts to CPR
2025 (New): Head-up CPR in adults with 
cardiac arrest is not recommended 
except in the setting of clinical trials. 
Why: A recent ILCOR systematic review 
identified no RCTs and only 3 obser-
vational studies, each with significant 
methodological limitations, identifying 
very low certainty of evidence down-
graded for serious risk of bias for the 
outcome of survival to discharge and 
survival to discharge with favorable 
neurological outcome and noting that 
future work is needed to evaluate this 
adjunct. 
Termination of Resuscitation Measures 
2025 (Updated): In a tiered EMS system 
with both ALS and BLS professionals, it 
is reasonable to use the universal ter-
mination of resuscitation rule for adult 
patients with OHCA. 
Why: The universal termination of re-
suscitation rule, which uses the same 
criteria as the BLS rule (ie, arrest not 
witnessed by EMS professionals; no 
shock delivered; no ROSC), has been 
prospectively validated specifically in 
combined BLS/ALS, or tiered response, 
EMS agencies. 
Wide-Complex Tachycardia
2025 (Updated): Synchronized cardio-
version is recommended for acute 
treatment of adult patients with hemo-
dynamically unstable wide-complex 
tachycardia. 
Why: In hemodynamically unstable 
patients with wide-complex tachy-
cardia, it is critical to promptly restore 
sinus rhythm. Synchronized cardiover-
sion has a high rate of termination of 
wide-complex tachycardia. 
2025 (Updated): Synchronized cardio-
version is recommended for acute 
treatment of adult patients with he-
modynamically stable wide-complex 
tachycardia when vagal maneuvers and 
pharmacological therapy is ineffective 
or contraindicated. 
Why: In stable patients with wide- 
complex tachycardia, vagal maneu-
vers or adenosine may be attempted; 
however, if the patient remains in 
wide-complex tachycardia following 
these therapies, synchronized cardio-
version is recommended to restore 
sinus rhythm. 
Atrial Fibrillation or Flutter With Rapid 
Ventricular Response 
2025 (Updated): For synchronized 
cardioversion of AF in adults using 
any currently US-approved biphasic 
waveform defibrillator, an initial energy 
setting of at least 200 J is reasonable 
and incremented in the event of shock 
failure, depending on the biphasic de-
fibrillator used. 
Why: Recent randomized trials together 
with a network meta-analysis involv-
ing more than 3000 AF patients found 
that 200-J shocks achieved greater 
than 90% cumulative cardioversion 
success across all 3 biphasic platforms 
currently available in the United States. 
Low-energy monophasic shocks were 
significantly more likely to provoke 
ventricular fibrillation when cardiovert-
ing AF and AF when cardioverting atrial 
flutter than a 200-J or greater setting. 
2025 (New): The usefulness of double 
synchronized cardioversion of AF in 
adults as an initial treatment strategy is 
uncertain. 
Why: On the basis of currently avail-
able data and given the high success 
of optimal synchronized cardiover-
sion using biphasic waveforms, the 


=== PAGE 17 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 17
2025 Highlights
incremental benefit from double 
synchronized cardioversion appears 
modest. 
2025 (Updated): For synchronized cardio-
version of atrial flutter in adults, an initial 
energy setting of 200 J may be reason-
able and incremented in the event of 
shock failure, depending on the bipha-
sic defibrillator used. 
Why: Recent studies support the like-
lihood of greater efficacy, efficiency, 
and simplicity, without safety concerns, 
when a starting energy of 200 J with 
any currently US-marketed biphasic 
defibrillator is used for flutter cardio-
version and incremented in the event of 
shock failure, depending on the defibril-
lator’s features. 
Initial Management of Bradycardia
2025 (New): In adult patients with per-
sistent hemodynamically unstable 
bradycardia refractory to medical 
therapy, temporary transvenous pacing 
is reasonable to increase heart rate and 
improve symptoms. 
Why: When the heart rate does not 
improve with medications and shock 
persists, transvenous pacing can 
improve the heart rate and symp-
toms until more definitive treatment 
(correction of underlying cause or 
permanent pacemaker placement) can 
be implemented. 
Post–Cardiac 
Arrest Care
Post–cardiac arrest care focuses on 
reducing neurological sequelae and 
organ dysfunction while identifying and 
addressing any reversible cause of the 
cardiac arrest. Neuroprognostication  
is a key component of post–cardiac 
arrest care to ensure appropriate uti-
lization of resources, withdrawal of 
life-sustaining therapy, and optimization 
of patient outcomes. The Adult Post–
Cardiac Arrest Care Algorithm (Figure 
7) has been updated to reflect new 
science in this area.
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes 
•	 The section on neuroprognostication 
was updated to include predictors of 
favorable outcome, and neurofilament 
light chain was added as a serum 
biomarker.
•	 It is reasonable that temperature 
control be maintained for at least 36 
hours in adult patients who remain 
unresponsive to verbal commands 
after ROSC. 
•	 Hypotension should be avoided in 
adults after ROSC by maintaining a 
minimum mean arterial pressure (MAP) 
of at least 65 mm Hg, though there is 
insufficient evidence to recommend 
a specific vasopressor to treat low 
blood pressure in adult patients after 
cardiac arrest. 
•	 New recommendations for cardiac 
arrest survivors and their caregivers 
focus on structured assessment 
and treatment/referral for emotional 
distress after medical stabilization and 
before hospital discharge.
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Blood Pressure in Adults After  
Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (Updated): Hypotension should  
be avoided in adults after ROSC by 
maintaining a minimum MAP of at least 
65 mm Hg. 
Why: Four randomized trials com-
pared lower to higher MAP targets 
after OHCA. These studies did not 
demonstrate better overall survival 
or favorable neurologic outcome with 
higher MAP. 
Diagnostic Studies for Adults After 
Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
perform head-to-pelvis computed 
tomography (CT) for adult patients after 
ROSC to investigate the etiology of 
cardiac arrest and complications from 
resuscitation. 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
perform echocardiography or point-
of-care cardiac ultrasound for adult 
patients after ROSC to identify clini-
cally significant diagnoses requiring 
intervention. 
Why: Echocardiography, point-of-care 
cardiac ultrasound, and CT imaging are 
used in postarrest patients to identify 
clinically significant diagnoses requiring 
intervention. 
Temperature Control for Adults After  
Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (Updated): It is reasonable that 
temperature control be maintained for 
at least 36 hours in adult patients who 
remain unresponsive to verbal com-
mands after ROSC. 
Why: Temperature control includes 
hypothermic temperature control 
(32-34 °C) and normothermic or fe-
ver-prevention temperature control 
(36-37.5 °C). Recognizing evolution of 
evidence and definitions with respect to 
temperature control, 36 hours of total 
temperature control is the shortest 
recommended duration. 
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention for 
Adults After Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (Updated): Coronary angiography is 
recommended before hospital dis-
charge in adult cardiac arrest survivors 
with suspected cardiac etiology, 
particularly in the presence of an initial 
shockable rhythm, unexplained left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction, or evi-
dence of severe myocardial ischemia. 
Why: Coronary artery disease is com-
monly identified in patients after OHCA. 


=== PAGE 18 ===
18	
American Heart Association
Figure 7. Adult Post–Cardiac Arrest Care Algorithm.
ROSC obtained
Early diagnostic testing
Obtain 12-lead ECG.
Consider diagnostic imaging 
(CT and/or ultrasound).
Assess patient off sedation and 
neuromuscular blockade, if able.
Manage airway
Assess airway.
Place or exchange an advanced airway device,  
as necessary.
Confirm correct airway placement.
Manage oxygenation and ventilation
Maintain 100% Fio2 until Spo2 (or Pao2) can be 
measured reliably.
Spo2 target 90%-98% (Pao2 60-105 mm Hg)
Pco2 target 35-45 mm Hg 
Manage hemodynamics
Target MAP ≥65 mm Hg
Ongoing critical care
Ongoing critical care
EEG
Coronary angiography  
when appropriate
Coronary angiography  
when appropriate
Appropriately timed, 
multimodal prognostication
Deliberate strategy for 
temperature control
Follows 
commands?
© 2025 American Heart Association
Initial Stabilization After ROSC
Resuscitation is ongoing during the post-
ROSC phase, and many of these activities 
can occur concurrently.
Manage airway: Assess and consider 
placement or exchange of an advanced 
airway device (usually endotracheal tube 
or supraglottic device). Confirm correct 
placement of an advanced airway. This 
generally includes the use of waveform 
capnography or capnometry.
Manage oxygenation and ventilation: 
Titrate Fio2 for Spo2 90%-98% (or Pao2  
60-105 mm Hg). Adjust minute ventilation 
to target Pco2 35-45 mm Hg in the 
absence of severe acidemia.
Manage hemodynamics: Initiate 
or adjust vasopressors and/or fluid 
resuscitation as necessary for goal MAP 
≥65 mm Hg.
Early diagnostic testing: Obtain 12-lead 
ECG to assess for ischemia or arrhythmia. 
Consider CT head, chest, abdomen, and/
or pelvis to determine cause of arrest 
or assess for injuries sustained during 
resuscitation. Point-of-care ultrasound 
or echocardiography may be reasonable 
to identify clinically significant diagnoses 
requiring intervention.
Continued Management
Treat arrest etiologies and 
complications.
Consider emergency cardiac 
intervention: 
 • Persistent ST-segment elevation 
present
 • Cardiogenic shock
 • Recurrent or refractory ventricular 
arrhythmias
 • Severe myocardial ischemia
Temperature control: If patient is not 
following commands off sedation and 
neuromuscular blockade or is unable to 
assess, initiate a deliberate strategy of 
temperature control with goal 32 °C-37.5 °C 
as soon as possible.
Evaluate for seizure: Evaluate for clinical 
seizure and obtain EEG to evaluate 
for seizure in patients not following 
commands.
Prognostication: Multimodal approach 
with delayed impressions (≥72 hours from 
ROSC or achieving normothermia). 
Ongoing critical care includes the 
following:
 • Target Pao2 60-105 mm Hg, Pco2 35-45
mm Hg (unless severe acidemia); avoid 
hypoglycemia (glucose <70 mg/dL) and 
hyperglycemia (glucose >180 mg/dL); 
target MAP ≥65 mm Hg.
 • Consider antibiotics.
Treat arrest etiologies and complications.
Consider emergency coronary angiography  
and/or mechanical circulatory support.
Initial 
stabilization 
after ROSC
Continued 
management
Yes
No or 
unsure


=== PAGE 19 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 19
2025 Highlights
Identifying and treating unstable coro-
nary artery disease has been shown to 
improve outcomes. 
Temporary Mechanical Circulatory 
Support for Adults After Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (New): In highly selected adult pa-
tients with refractory cardiogenic shock 
after cardiac arrest and ROSC, tempo-
rary mechanical circulatory support 
may be considered. 
Why: Cardiogenic shock commonly 
occurs as either a cause or conse-
quence of cardiac arrest. Temporary 
mechanical circulatory devices can 
provide hemodynamic stabilization in 
refractory cardiogenic shock. 
Diagnosis and Management of 
Myoclonus in Adults After Cardiac 
Arrest 
2025 (New): Treatment to suppress 
myoclonus without an EEG correlate is 
not recommended in adult survivors of 
cardiac arrest. 
Why: There is no evidence implicating 
myoclonus without an EEG correlate in 
the pathogenesis of secondary brain 
injury after cardiac arrest. Thus, the risk 
of side effects outweighs the unknown 
benefit of suppressing myoclonus 
without an EEG correlate on patient 
outcomes.
Neuroprognostication 
2025 (New): When evaluated with other 
prognostic tests, it may be reasonable 
to consider a continuous EEG back-
ground without discharges within 72 
hours after cardiac arrest to support 
the prognosis of favorable neurological 
outcome in adult patients who remain 
comatose after ROSC. 
Why: The section on neuroprognostica-
tion was updated to include predictors 
of favorable outcome. A 2022 system-
atic review from ILCOR investigated 
prediction of favorable outcome. 
Recovery and Survivorship After 
Cardiac Arrest 
2025 (Updated): It is recommended that 
cardiac arrest survivors and their care-
givers have structured assessment and 
treatment of or referral for emotional 
distress after medical stabilization and 
before hospital discharge. 
Why: Approximately one fourth of 
cardiac arrest survivors and their care-
givers experience emotional distress. 
Studies in survivor-caregiver pairs and 
in survivors showed improvements in 
emotional distress in those receiving a 
psychosocial intervention. 
Cardiac  
Arrest Due  
to Special 
Circumstances
Several special circumstances may 
warrant additional treatment beyond 
standard BLS and ALS care. These rec-
ommendations are intended to cover 
the management of both pediatrics and 
adults in life-threatening conditions, 
including cardiac arrest. 
Summary of Key Issues and 
Major Changes
•	 While extracorporeal life support 
(ECLS) is not available in every setting, 
adults and children in cardiac arrest 
or a periarrest state with a potentially 
reversible etiology are being 
supported with ECLS devices, such as 
venoarterial extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation.
•	 Chest compressions, bag-mask 
ventilation, defibrillation, suctioning, 
and endotracheal intubation should 
be considered aerosol-generating 
procedures, which pose a risk of 
infection to resuscitation team 
members.
•	 Management of cardiac arrest during 
pregnancy is a complex clinical 
scenario that requires resuscitation 
strategies that accommodate for the 
physiological changes of pregnancy.
•	 An opioid antagonist (eg, naloxone) 
should be given to people with 
respiratory arrest from suspected 
opioid overdose. Trained rescuers, lay 
rescuers, and members of the general 
public can all administer naloxone.
Major New and Updated 
Recommendations 
Life-Threatening Asthma Exacerbation
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
use ECLS for adults and children with 
life-threatening asthma refractory to 
standard therapies. 
2025 (New): Treatment with volatile 
anesthetics for adults and children with 
life-threatening asthma refractory to 
standard therapies may be considered. 
Why: Asthma can cause cardiac arrest 
from lower airway obstruction that 
leads to hypoxemia, hypercarbia, 
respiratory acidosis, and increased 
intrathoracic pressure, which leads 
to decreased cardiac output. Adult 
and pediatric observational studies of 
ECLS or volatile anesthetics demon-
strate survival rates between 83.5% 
and 100%. Either venovenous or 
venoarterial extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation can be considered de-
pending on the needs of the particular 
patient. 
Life-Threatening Hyperkalemia 
2025 (Updated): The effectiveness of IV 
calcium administration for adults and 
children in cardiac arrest from suspect-
ed hyperkalemia is not well established. 
Why: For adults and children in cardiac 
arrest from suspected hyperkalemia, 
human evidence of improved surviv-
al or favorable neurological status 
following IV calcium administration is 


=== PAGE 20 ===
20	
American Heart Association
limited. Initiating IV calcium must be 
carefully weighed against the poten-
tial for detracting from time-sensitive, 
guideline-directed resuscitative inter-
ventions, including high-quality CPR, 
defibrillation of shockable rhythms, and 
administration of epinephrine. 
Life-Threatening Hypothermia 
2025 (New): It is reasonable to use 
prognostication scores to guide the 
decision for initiating ECLS rewarming 
for adults and children in hypothermic 
cardiac arrest. 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
rewarm adults and children with severe 
environmental hypothermia (core 
temperature, <28 °C [84 °F]) and not in 
cardiac arrest using ECLS. 
Why: Severe environmental hypother-
mia (core temperature, <30 °C [86 °F]) 
can cause cardiac arrest as well as 
findings that mimic death. Reduced 
metabolic rate and oxygen con-
sumption increase the likelihood of 
neurologically intact survival. Studies 
show improved survival in hypothermic 
cardiac arrest when ECLS is provided 
compared with when conventional 
CPR is provided. Rewarming adults and 
children not in cardiac arrest with ECLS 
can be faster but risks complications 
related to its use. The HOPE probability 
score and ICE survival score are better 
validated for predicting survival after 
hypothermic cardiac arrest com-
pared with other prognostic factors in 
isolation.
Life-Threatening Hyperthermia 
2025 (New): It is reasonable to choose 
immersion in ice water (1-5 °C [33.8-41 °F]) 
over other cooling methods in adults 
and children with life-threatening 
hyperthermia. 
2025 (New): It is reasonable to cool 
adults and children with life-threatening 
hyperthermia as rapidly as possible 
with a decrease of at least 0.15 °C/min 
(0.27 °F/min). 
Why: Cardiac arrest from life- 
threatening hyperthermia (>40 °C 
[104 °F]) may be preventable by rapid 
cooling. A systematic review of human 
clinical and observational studies found 
cooling by ice water immersion to be 
most efficient and most likely to achieve 
the optimal cooling rate of at least 
0.15 °C/min (0.27 °F/min) compared 
with other strategies. These recom-
mendations apply to environmental 
hyperthermia as well as hyperthermia 
associated with sympathomimetic and 
cocaine poisoning. 
Left Ventricular Assist Devices 
2025 (New): In unresponsive adults and 
children with durable left ventricular assist 
devices (LVADs) and impaired perfusion, 
chest compressions should be performed. 
2025 (New): In unresponsive adults and 
children with durable LVADs and im-
paired perfusion, it may be reasonable 
to start chest compressions immedi-
ately while simultaneously assessing 
for device-related reversible causes. 
Why: The absence of a palpable pulse 
can make confirming cardiac arrest 
in adults and children with an LVAD 
difficult. Perfusion is assessed using 
skin color, skin temperature, capil-
lary refill, MAP, and partial pressure of 
end-tidal carbon dioxide, and if per-
fusion is impaired, cardiac arrest is 
likely. Outcomes of cardiac arrest with 
and without CPR in this population are 
difficult to assess due to bias in these 
studies, but the potential benefit of 
CPR outweighs the theoretical risk of 
device dislodgment. Treatment should 
prioritize CPR while simultaneously 
attempting to restore LVAD function if a 
second rescuer is available. The LVAD 
algorithm (Figure 8) details the treat-
ment steps. 
Cardiac Arrest During Pregnancy 
2025 (Updated): Preparation for resusci-
tative delivery for a pregnant patient in 
cardiac arrest should begin at the rec-
ognition of cardiac arrest, with the goal 
to complete delivery by 5 minutes. 
2025 (New): It is reasonable to use ECPR 
in pregnant or peripartum patients in 
cardiac arrest not responsive to stan-
dard resuscitation. 
2025 (New): A massive transfusion proto-
col with a balanced transfusion strategy 
should be used for peripartum patients 
with suspected life-threatening amniot-
ic fluid embolism. 
Why: In addition to team planning, manual 
left lateral uterine displacement, and 
standard resuscitation, resuscitative 
delivery (replacing the term perimortem 
cesarean delivery) should be completed 
by 5 minutes to improve outcomes for 
the pregnant patient. Studies for ECPR 
reported survival rates between 55% and 
75% for pregnant patients. Amniotic fluid 
embolism in peripartum patients can lead 
to cardiac arrest and is characterized by 
hemodynamic compromise, respiratory 
distress, and disseminated intravascular 
coagulation with resultant hemorrhage. 
A balanced massive transfusion strategy 
for red blood cells, plasma, and platelets 
equivalent reduces the risk of death. The 
Cardiac Arrest in Pregnancy Algorithm 
details the treatment steps.
 Toxicology: Opioid Overdose 
2025 (New): For lay and trained rescuers, 
opioid antagonist administration may 
be reasonable for adults and children 
in cardiac arrest with suspected opioid 
overdose, provided that opioid an-
tagonist (eg, naloxone) administration 
does not interfere with the delivery 
of standard resuscitation, including 
high-quality CPR with breaths. 
2025 (New): Adults and children who 
are treated for opioid overdose should 
receive an opioid antagonist (eg, nalox-
one) and instruction on how to use it at 
the time of discharge from a health care 
setting. 
Why: Opioid antagonists restore pro-
tective airway reflexes and reverse 
respiratory arrest from opioid overdose 
in adults and children and should be ad-
ministered whenever opioid overdose 
is suspected. No clinical trials have 
evaluated the role of opioid antagonists 
in adults or children with cardiac arrest. 
The efficacy of naloxone administration 


=== PAGE 21 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 21
2025 Highlights
Figure 8. Adult and Pediatric Durable LVAD Algorithm.
Assessing Perfusion
Adequate perfusion* if any of the 
following present:
 • Normal skin color and 
temperature
 • Normal capillary refill
 • MAP >50 mm Hg (if noninvasive 
BP cuff nonfunctional, use 
doppler or arterial line, if 
available)
 • Petco2 >20 mm Hg
*Patients may not have palpable pulse
Non-LVAD Causes of 
Unresponsiveness
 • Dysrhythmia
 • Hemorrhage/hypovolemia
 • Hypoglycemia
 • Hypoxia
 • Overdose
 • Right ventricular failure
 • Sepsis
 • Stroke
Assess and Attempt to Restart 
LVAD Function
 • Look/listen for alarms
 • Listen for LVAD hum
 • Driveline connected?
 • Power source connected?
 • Need to replace system 
controller?
© 2025 American Heart Association
Unresponsive adults and children  
with a durable LVAD
 • Assist ventilation, if necessary
 • Assess perfusion
Do not perform 
external chest 
compressions
 • Assess and treat 
non-LVAD causes of 
unresponsiveness
Transport
Contact VAD center
 • Continue to  
monitor perfusion
Monitor perfusion
No
Yes
Perform external chest 
compressions
 • Assess LVAD 
function, if second 
rescuer available
 • Assess and treat 
non-LVAD causes for 
unresponsiveness
Adequate perfusion?
Continue BLS/ALS


=== PAGE 22 ===
22	
American Heart Association
in animal studies and adult observation-
al studies for undifferentiated cardiac 
arrest or cardiac arrest with suspected 
opioid overdose is conflicting. However, 
there is no known harm from adminis-
tering naloxone to a person in cardiac 
arrest, provided that opioid antagonist 
administration does not interfere with 
standard resuscitation. People who 
survive an opioid overdose are at high 
risk of a subsequent overdose. In addi-
tion to brief psychosocial interventions 
and referral to evidence-based treat-
ment programs, providing “take-home” 
or “leave-behind” doses of opioid 
antagonists with teaching may prevent 
future fatal overdoses.
Education 
Science
Education and training science and 
the technology to support training 
continues to evolve, and a comprehen-
sive review of the literature resulted 
in several new and important updates 
that impact training both health care 
professionals and lay rescuers. Among 
the most significant updates are rec-
ommendations on feedback devices 
during training, disparities in CPR 
education, the use of virtual reality 
(VR), and lay rescuer training for opioid 
overdose. 
•	 Technology continues to change the 
educational landscape, and health 
care market forces have driven 
implementation of new strategies to 
reduce costs.
•	 The growing body of education 
science has led to different 
recommendations in technology and 
techniques for teaching cognitive 
information and learning psychomotor 
skills as well as for different audiences 
(health care professionals and lay 
rescuers).
•	 Improved patient outcomes remain 
lacking for most life support training 
innovations, yet they remain the 
ultimate goal of training.
Use of Feedback Devices During CPR 
Training
2025 (Updated): Feedback devices are 
recommended for use during CPR train-
ing for health care professionals. 
2025 (Updated): Feedback devices are 
recommended for use during CPR train-
ing for lay rescuers.
Why: A meta-analysis of several new 
RCTs conducted with health care 
professionals demonstrated that CPR 
feedback devices had a moderate to 
large effect on all CPR quality metrics. 
Three RCTs conducted with lay res-
cuers demonstrated that feedback 
devices were effective in increasing 
mean CPR quality metrics. 
Rapid-Cycle Deliberate Practice 
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
incorporate rapid-cycle deliberate 
practice as part of BLS or ALS training 
for health care professionals. 
Why: Rapid-cycle deliberate practice 
is a simulation-based training method 
that incorporates within-event debrief-
ing. Studies have found that rapid-cycle 
deliberate practice results in improved 
performance of multiple CPR skills and 
improved workload scores.
Teamwork and Leadership Training
2025 (Updated): It is recommended that 
life support training for health care pro-
fessionals includes a specific emphasis 
on teamwork competencies.
Why: Twelve of 14 RCTs reviewed 
reported superior performance after 
specific teamwork training in outcomes 
related to communication, leadership 
behavior, nontechnical skills, workload 
management, and overall teamwork at 
course completion.
Gamified Learning
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
use gamified learning elements as a 
component of resuscitation training for 
health care professionals.
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to 
use gamified learning elements as a 
component of CPR instruction for lay 
rescuers.
Why: Because the evidence for gamified 
learning as well as virtual and augment-
ed reality is growing, recommendations 
for these techniques were separated 
and a specific recommendation for 
augmented reality was added. Gamified 
learning is associated with improved 
CPR knowledge, skill performance, and 
self-confidence in lay rescuers and 
health care professionals; however, the 
current evidence to support gamified 
learning is weak.
Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality
2025 (New): It may be reasonable to use 
VR to support knowledge acquisition in 
BLS and ALS training for lay rescuers 
and health care professionals.
2025 (New): The use of augmented reality 
to provide real-time CPR feedback may 
be considered for BLS training of lay 
rescuers and health care professionals.
2025 (New): Virtual reality should not be 
used to teach CPR skills in lay rescuers 
and health care professionals.
Why: Thirteen studies explored the use 
of VR for life support knowledge training 
in health care professionals, with mixed 
results about knowledge acquisition 
compared with traditional training. Im-
portantly, new data show a difference in 
the usefulness of VR to support knowl-
edge acquisition versus skills training, 
leading to opposing recommendations 
for these 2 domains. Several studies 
looked at quantitatively measured 
CPR skill parameters (eg, depth, rate) 
and found that VR-based training was 
either inferior to or no different from 
other forms of CPR training for these 
outcomes.


=== PAGE 23 ===
eccguidelines.heart.org	
 23
2025 Highlights
Opioid Overdose Training for  
Lay Rescuers
2025 (Updated): It is recommended that 
lay rescuers receive education on rec-
ognition and initial treatment steps for 
people who have an opioid-associated 
OHCA.
2025 (Updated): The optimal training 
method for lay rescuers in recognizing 
and intervening in opioid overdose has 
not been established.
Why: Three recent systematic reviews 
of over 140 studies summarized the 
impact of lay rescuer training in opioid 
overdose recognition and treatment 
and found that this training increased 
knowledge, improved willingness to 
respond, and increased likelihood of 
naloxone use.
Disparities in Education
2025 (Updated): It is recommended to 
focus and tailor lay rescuer CPR training 
to specific racial and ethnic popula-
tions as well as neighborhoods with 
high densities of these populations and 
incorporate awareness efforts in these 
areas.
2025 (Updated): It is recommended to 
address barriers to performing lay 
rescuer CPR on women through edu-
cational training and public awareness 
efforts.
2025 (Updated): It is recommended to 
focus on low socioeconomic status 
populations and neighborhoods for lay 
rescuer CPR training and awareness 
efforts. 
2025 (Updated): It is reasonable to 
address barriers to linguistically 
isolated communities by increasing 
availability and access to CPR training 
materials in diverse languages.
2025 (Updated): It is reasonable to con-
sider cost-effective methods for CPR 
training and to promote safe access 
to CPR training for low socioeconomic 
status populations and settings. 
Why: There are known disparities due 
to social factors in both patients who 
receive CPR outside the hospital and 
availability of CPR training. Focusing on 
specific populations for CPR education 
and modifying education to address 
differences could eliminate disparities 
in CPR training and lay rescuer CPR, 
potentially enhancing cardiac arrest 
outcomes in these populations. Spe-
cific recommendations have been 
made for training in low-income neigh-
borhoods and linguistically isolated 
communities and for cost- 
effective CPR training methods in these 
populations.
CPR Training in School Children
2025 (New): It is recommended to start 
CPR training in children younger than 12 
years of age to increase willingness and 
self-confidence in later years.
Why: Evidence shows that starting 
to introduce younger children to the 
concepts of emergency calls and the 
need for CPR and automated external 
defibrillators earlier improves socializa-
tion of timely lay rescuer response and 
its importance.
Alternative Objects for Chest 
Compression Training in Lay Rescuers
2025 (New): The usefulness of alternative 
objects to train lay rescuers in chest 
compressions, when compared with a 
manikin, is not well established.
Why: Preliminary data about the feasi-
bility of the use of common household 
objects (eg, pillows, toilet paper rolls, 
foam blocks) to train and practice chest 
compressions have recently been 
described. Seven studies were identi-
fied in which learners used alternative 
objects to practice chest compres-
sions, with mixed results. As such, the 
evidence is not yet strong enough to 
make a recommendation.
Scripted Debriefing
2025 (New): It may be reasonable for an 
instructor to use a debriefing script 
during resuscitation education.
Why: Scripted debriefing involves the 
creation of a written plan for debriefing 
learners during and/or following life 
support training. Standardized debrief-
ing helps to maintain consistency in the 
delivery of debriefings across training 
centers and resuscitation programs. 
Six studies with varying outcomes were 
identified.
Use of Cognitive Aids
2025 (New): It may be reasonable for 
health care professionals to use cogni-
tive aids during resuscitation. 
2025 (New): It is not recommended for lay 
rescuers to use cognitive aids during 
resuscitation.
Why: Cognitive aids are resources that 
provide prompts aimed at encouraging 
recall of information and increasing 
the likelihood of correct performance 
and behaviors. Published simulation 
data suggest that cognitive aid use by 
health care professionals may improve 
resuscitation performance. In lay res-
cuers, cognitive aid use was associated 
with significant delays in starting CPR, 
leading to a recommendation against 
their use for lay rescuers. 


=== PAGE 24 ===
